Monte Hayward 
=============
2140 Sage Creek Loop
Austin, TX 78704 
T: 512-586-5866 
T:650-797-1444 
E: monte@montehayward.com

Summary    
Brought nine new Software as a Service (SaaS) products online, with
exits of $75M, 2 @ $30M, $32M and $40M. Named inventor in three US Patents, and
associated international patents. Experience strategist, application developer,
and user experience technologist. Evaluates business and consumer problems and
devises creative and unobtrusive objects to solve them. Passionate about mental
models and brainstorming. Provides the rapid prototyping skills needed to prove
a novel solution. Embraces the extreme uncertainty of start-ups and
entrepreneurial ventures. Engages technical and business stakeholders in the
lean, agile interplay that makes the most of an opportunity. Seasoned developer
of social media, information feed, and search products. Specialties: Experience
strategies, user experience, JavaScript OOP, actionable metrics, Web
applications. Comfortable with JavaScript frameworks, single-page applications,
native JavaScript, SQL/noSQL, CSS, XML, and shell scripting. 

Objective
Help companies get their Minimum Viable Product (MVP) to market
faster. Prefer long-term contract commitments. Billing is corp-to-corp or 1099.

Skills    
• native JavaScript  Angular.js  D3.js Data Visualization  RESTful APIs / JSON
• CSS, LESS, SCSS  Mobile Applications OOP   User Experience / UX  Innovation
• Development  Start-ups & Entrepreneurship  Web Applications  User Interface
• Design  Web Development Agile Methodologies   Rapid Prototyping  Agile
• Modeling  PCI-compliant Payment Systems  Financial data applications  SQL /
• noSQL Java  XML

Experience
Senior Freelance Developer   Greenfield Innovation Group  01 /
2014 - Present Full stack developer with UX-First approach. Providing software
development focused upon early stage innovation, from inception to 1.0. Twenty
years experience in Internet startups.

Selected Projects
 ➢ Data Metrics Visualizations for Retail Merchandisers 
  - Creation of D3.js tag cloud, table, and other views. Built atop client's 
  home-grown  MVC framework.
➢ Mobile Web App – Insurance eCommerce
  - Beta to MVP to 1.20: UI/UX development on an Ember application 
➢ Mobile Canvassing App
  - Fundraising o Functional testing, business analysis, and UX design consultation
➢ Payment Systems 
- Fundraising o JavaScript / jQuery front ends with JSON API.
  Implemented ACH, Chicago Marathon  discount code solution.


Kimbia    Senior Director of Development    9/2013 -1/2014 

Drove software product development on a SaaS platform for payments, fundraising,
and event management. Tailored an agile development process to meet hard
external commitments and introduce novel, market-disrupting technology. Grew and
strengthened the whole- team agile culture among business stakeholders and
developers. Collaborated with clients and subject matter experts in related
industries to provide compelling value. Analyzed business rules and engineered
engaging user experiences. Specialized in distributed clients and applications.


Kimbia    Director of Development   8/2010 – 8/2013

Lead software product development for contextual giving, viral fundraising, and
event management. Initiated a whole-company approach that emphasizes shared
understanding. Gathered metrics and feedback, to attune product offerings to
customer needs. Validated PCI Level 1 compliance in all aspects of operations
and development.

Kimbia    Senior Software Engineer    1/2008 – 8/2010

Primary developer of distributed client products. Team developer of server and
client side products and bundles. ➢ Portable giving form o Any customer can
paste a single-line snippet into their Web page. Upon page load, this
JavaScript client "wakes up", finds its location, and inserts a form. The form
takes donations and event registrations in the context of the customer brand
and page. ➢ Advocacy workflows o People sign themselves up, and then may show
support by placing a form snippet on their site or blog, and emailing
personalized links. Viral advocacy supports the core Kimbia principle:
Personal relationships motivate people to donate and sign up. The form is
viral, so, the power of giving is pushed out to the very edges of a network of
advocates, enabling geometric expansion. ➢ Mixin components o Conditional
questions, complex validation, custom script events, and payment plans support
a highly configurable experience. ➢ Ancillary widgets o Reporting, lookup,
payment plan self-service, and others round out the suite.

Pluck Corporation– $75M exit    Solutions Engineer    2/2007 – 9/2007

Engineer for a premiere social media platform serving publishers Better Homes
and Gardens, McGraw Hill, Conde-Naste, Hearst, and Gannet. Wrote to a JSON API
and debugged server application.

Wetpaint– $30M exit   User Experience Engineer    2/2006 – 6/2006

Helped Wetpaint.com get their Internet collaboration software to beta and 1.0
launches, which were lauded by Cnet News, TechCrunch, and Technology Review.
Enjoyed their rapid round-trip engineering process, which scaled well. Built
features and templates to empower non-technical users to create social
communities on their favorite topics. Employed JSP frameworks, RESTful API for
data, AJAX for a reponsive user experience, and CSS skins.

Singingfish– $30M exit     Software Engineer    2000 – 2005

Produced UX and prototypes for presentations that led to a $30M acquisition.

2000-2004 - Designed and developed Singingfish Audio-Video Search user
interfaces, enabling fully featured, first-to-market releases. See A Short
History of YouTube: http://amzn.to/bNUZFN

2000 - Developed first media search site for mobile devices

Developed media RSS feed ingester software, to pulls content from MSNBC,
Yahoo! Music, CBS News, Marketwatch, NPR, and Reuters.

Coauthored the Singingfish RSS namespace extension to fully describe and
syndicate media content. Helped Yahoo engineers to add Singingfish RSS fields
into their Yahoo Media RSS 1.0.0. This became the standard Media RSS.
Supported partner company media feed development. Automated XML Schema
validation, reducing feed ramp-up and removing skill barriers.

Wrote video search SDKs for Perl, Java Servlet, JSP, and XSLT.

Devised a click recording system to capture user behavior and relevance.

Shepherded Windows Media, RealPlayer, and other early customer implementations.

HaggleZone    Software Engineer   1998 – 2000

Java servlet and Web application developer on Auction (US7024376) and
Haggle/Negotiation (US7756772, US6035288) applications backed by an
800,000-product inventory system.
 
Free Range Media– $32M exit   Web Builder   1997 – 1998

Team lead and Web site builder for agency customers including Swedish Medical
Center, Bay Watch, and Advanced Interactive Systems.


iCat Corporation– $40M exit   Web Production Specialist   1996 – 1997

Web Development, Product Development, Web Application Development, User
Interface Design, Template Construction

Education
Master of Associated Medical Science, Biomedical Visualization 
University of Illinois Chicago 

BFA and Life Sciences minor University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
    
Patents   
➢ Method of Disseminating Advertisements Using an Embedded Media Player Page 
  US Patent: 8122236 
· Inventors: Monte Hayward · Issued, 10 / 2001

➢ Methods and Systems for Collecting Data For Media Files 
  US Patent: 7849160
· Inventors: Monte Hayward · Issued, 10 / 2001 

➢ Method of Sizing an Embedded Media Player Page 
  EU Patent: EP 1350392 B1 
· Inventors: Monte Hayward · Issued, 01 / 2011


